# Remote sensing and radiative budget modeling of natural and urban surfaces

The study of land surfaces functioning and biophysical properties (*e.g.*, leaf biomass, soil moisture and temperature) increasingly relies on RS data, due to its unique ability of frequent and global observation of our planet. The increased use of RS data is mostly due to advances in technology (sensor radiometric accuracy, spatial / spectral / temporal resolutions,...) and in methods of interpretation of RS acquisitions. Here, we only consider RS data (*i.e.*, (*i.e.*, landscape radiance $L(\Omega)$ reflectance factor $\rho(\Omega)=\frac {L(\Omega)} {E_{sun}}$ and brightness temperature $T_B(\Omega)=L_{B}^{-1}(L(\Omega))$ acquired in the visible (VIS), near infrared (NIR) and thermal infrared (TIR) domains (*i.e.*, **[0.3μm 100µm]**), at any altitude from TOA (Top Of Atmosphere) to BOA (Bottom Of Atmosphere), where it can be right above or within the landscape. 

RS data are often interpreted with statistical approaches: image classification, correlations with field measurements (*e.g.*, LAI: Leaf Area Index),... However, these approaches (*e.g.*, $LAI = f(NDVI)$ with NDVI (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) $=\frac {\rho_{NIR} - \rho_{Red}} {\rho_{NIR} + \rho_{Red}}$ (Rouse *et al.*, 1973)), are often inaccurate because they are defined for specific experimental (*e.g.*, atmosphere) and instrumental (*e.g.*, viewing direction) configurations. It explains the increased use of RS models that simulate the bi-directional reflectance factor (BRF) and brightness temperatures function (BTF) of landscapes. The demand of more accurate satellite derived information and landscape RB explains the need of models that consider the landscape 3D complexity (*i.e.*, topography, trees, buildings,…). Three types of BRF models are mentiond below.

- <u>*Empirical and semi-models*</u>  
Empirical models do not attempt to explain the biophysical parameters and processes that govern BRF and BTF: they give a mathematical description of observed patterns in BRF / BTF datasets. Semi-empirical models rely on simplified physical principles of geometrical optics (GO) models and RT theory. For example, kernel driven models (Roujean *et al.*, 1992; Wanner *et al.*, 1995; Liu *et al.*, 2010) calculate BRF as the sum of an isotropic term and anisotropic functions (*i.e.*, kernels) associated to volume and surface scattering. There are other forms of semi-empirical models such as the RPV model (Rahman *et al.*, 1993), and its latter versions, the Modified RPV model (MRPV) (Martonchik, 1997) and the EMRPV model (Engelsen *et al.*, 1997), to accelerate inversion procedures. Semi-empirical models are widely used because they are analytical and have few parameters. For example, land surface BRF/albedo products from RS sensors (MODIS, POLDER, MSG/SEVIRI, AVHRR, VEGETATION,…) are mainly derived from kernel-driven models, using multi-angular bidirectional reflectance in clear skies to invert the BRF parameters (You *et al.*, 2014).
- <u>*Geometric optical (GO) reflectance models*</u>  
GO models are useful to understand the BRF of forests as a function of their physical dimensions and structure. They simulate tree covers as the combination of tree crowns, their shadows and background forest floor material (Peddle *et al.*, 2003), each one with specific surface optical properties that integrate implicitly volume scattering, which is a source of unaccurracy. Typically, tree crowns have characteristic shapes with defined spatial dimensions. Simulation results are based on the computation of scene fractions (*e.g.*, % sunlit canopy, % sunlit back-ground, % shadow). They are better adapted to "open" landscapes (*e.g.*, sparse tree cover). Li and Stralher (1986) developed one of the first GO models. In the more recent 4-scale model (Chen and Leblanc, 1997), tree crowns are discrete geometrical objects: cone and cylinder for conifers, and spheroid for deciduous species, where branches have a given inclination angle, with individual leaves in deciduous trees and shoots in conifers, with a given angular distribution. It uses a geometrical multiple scattering scheme with view factors (Chen and Leblanc, 2001).The 5-Scale model (Leblanc and Chen, 2000) is the merging of 4-Scale and LIBERTY (Dawson *et al.*, 1998) that simulates leaf optical properties.
- <u>*Radiative transfer models (RT)*</u>  
RT models, also called physical models, simulate the propagation of radiation with all the physical mechanisms (*e.g.*, atmosphere scattering) that determine and impact RS acquisitions. They rely on the RT equation that relates the change in radiance along a ray path to local absorption, scattering and thermal emission. They are potentially robust and accurate because they can work with landscapes that are realistically simulated. Generally speaking, the simulation of BOA and TOA BRF and BTF involves 4 RT components: soil model (Hapke, 1981), leaf model (*e.g.*, PROSPECT model; Feret *et al.*, 2008), canopy model (*e.g.*, SAIL model) and atmosphere model (*e.g.*, Modtran: Berk, 1996; 6S: Vermote *et al.*, 1997). The DART model simulates the RT in the whole "Earth-Atmsophere" system. 
    A major challenge is usually to compute accurately multiple scattering with the conservation of energy. There exists different mathematical approaches. Here, we present 4 major types of RT models:
    - Discrete ordinate method. Radiation is assumed to propagate along N discrete directions. This is represented by N RT equations. For example, the SAIL model (Verhoef, 1984) uses a system of 4 differential equations with 4 fluxes / 4 directions, applied to an horizontally homogeneous landscape: sun flux, 2 isotropic upward and downward fluxes and 1 flux along sensor view direction. The number of fluxes can be much larger (*e.g.*, 100 and more; Yin *et al.*, 2013) for better considering radiation anisotropy as in DART (Gastellu-Etchegorry *et al.*, 1996). The spatial variable is often discretized (Kimes and Kirchner, 1982; Myneni *et al.*, 1992) into a set of spatial nodes (*i.e.*, voxels) in order to consider the 3D heterogeneity of landscapes.
    - Radiosity method. It uses the radiation balance equation on a finite number N of discrete scatterers (Borel *et al.*, 1991), conversely to the RT methods based on the volumetric radiation balance in the 3D space. It inverts a NxN matrix. For that, it needs to compute the view factors between all N elements. It becomes very time consuming and complex if N is very large, which is the case of landscapes with many elements (*e.g.*, leaves of trees).
    - Successive orders of scattering (SOS). It is one of the oldest and simplest in concept of the solutions to the multiple scattering problem. It uses an iterative calculation of successive orders of scattering: total radiance vector is the summation of contributions from photons scattered a number of times. For example, the SOSVRT model (Duan *et al.*, 2010) simulates polarized RT in vertically inhomogeneous plane-parallel media.
    - Monte Carlo (MC) methods. They simulate the chain of scattering events incurred by a photon between the source and receiver. A great interest is that only single scattering properties need be explicitly modeled (Disney **et al.**, 2000). Computation time is their usual limiting constraint. FLIGHT (North, 1996), Drat (Lewis, 1999) and Raytran (Govaerts and Verstraete, 1998) are well known examples. Also, physically based and unbiased rendering engines (*e.g.*, LuxCoreRender: [luxcorerender.org](https://luxcorerender.org)) develop increasingly efficient MC methods. However, being designed to simulate very realistic images of scenes very quickly, they are not adapted to RS and RB studies (*e.g.*, hard coded limitations such as 3 bands, float coding, etc. DART-Lux adapts LuxCoreRender to RS and RB studies.

RS and RB models are often divided into 2 categories related to their mode of landscape modeling:

- <u>*Homogeneous lanscapes.*</u> They are the superposition of homogeneous and horizontal layers of turbid medium (*i.e.*, random distribution of infinitely small facets). With this assumption, "simple" models can simulate trends as the evolution of crop BRF/BTF with LAI change. Account of landscape architecture is usually partial at best.
- <u>*Realistic landscapes.*</u> They are increasingly used. They are represented by the juxtaposition of facets or arrays of voxels filled with fluids and turbid medium. The DART model combines these 2 approaches.